---
title: "Reset the elastic User Password"
url: https://help.relativity.com/Server2025/Content/Elasticstack/Reset_the_elastic_User_Password.htm
collection: user
fetched_at: 2026-06-22T06:11:17+00:00
sha256: 4225533020f0a858ccfd16474a0c6f1cb8f6a657a5edc07a354175713c53990d
---

Reset the elastic User Password Skip To Main Content Account Settings Logout

- placeholder

Account Settings Logout

relativitynd5u5rpx


https://help.relativity.com/Server2025/Content/CoveoSearch.htm


Coveo Search Page

>>

Version: RelativityOne Server 2025 Server 2024

☰

# Reset the elastic User Password

This procedure resets the password for the elastic user, the default superuser account in Elasticsearch.

-

Navigate to the Elasticsearch bin directory (for example, C:\elastic\elasticsearch\<version>\bin ).

-

Open an elevated PowerShell window and run the following command:

Copy

```text
.\elasticsearch-reset-password.bat -u elastic

```

Optional: Run in interactive mode:

Copy

```text
.\elasticsearch-reset-password.bat -i -u elastic

```

-

When prompted, press 'Y' to confirm and reset the password. The output will look similar to:

Sample output Copy

```text
PS C:\Elastic\elasticsearch-8.19.8\bin> .\elasticsearch-reset-password -u elastic

warning: ignoring JAVA_HOME=C:\Elastic\elasticsearch-8.19.8\jdk; using bundled JDK

This tool will reset the password of the [elastic] user to an autogenerated value.

The password will be printed in the console.

Please confirm that you would like to continue [y/N]y

Password for the [elastic] user successfully reset.

New value: 3D2nYt7r=rBPCzCCt3iy

PS C:\Elastic\elasticsearch-8.19.8\bin>_

```

-

Record and securely store the generated password immediately.

The password is shown only once and cannot be retrieved later. Store it according to your organization's credential management and security policies. This password is required for future authentication to Elasticsearch and Kibana.

On this page

- Reset the elastic User Password


Why was this not helpful?

Check one that applies.

I could not find the information I was looking for.

The information was incorrect.

The instructions are confusing or unclear.

The instructions did not work.

Thank you for your feedback.

Want to tell us more?


Great!

Thanks for taking the time to provide feedback.


- Install Relativity

- Pre-Installation

- Licensing

- Authentication

- Post-Installation verification test

- More >

- Upgrade

- Upgrade considerations

- Relativity upgrade

- More

- Infrastructure

- Servers

- Agents

- Resource pools

- Resource files

- More >

- Capabilities

- Analytics

- Processing

- More >

- Resources

- Relativity A-Z

- PDF Downloads

- Getting started

- Documentation archives

- Version support policy

- Relativity Learning

- Contact us

- 1-312-263-1177

- 231 South LaSalle Street 20th Floor Chicago, IL 60604

- © Relativity

- Privacy and Cookies

- Terms of Use
